 Locations Ranked by Interest
 
***The website http://thainsbook.net was used to create the descriptions***
 
 1.	Mount Doom-
 	Also called Orodruin. Sauron chose to reside in Mordor due to this volcanic
 	mountain.  Mount Doom was where the One Ring was forged by Sauron in the year
 	1600 of the Second Age.  It was also the location of the destruction of the 
 	One Ring by Frodo Baggins, Samwise Gamgee, and Gollum/Smeagol on 
 	March 25, 3019 of the Third Age.  At the destruction of the ring, the mountain
 	was split open.
  
 2.	Bag End-					 
 	The Hobbit-hole residence of Bilbo Baggins, Frodo Baggins, and finally Samwise
 	Gamgee and his descendants.  It was originally built by Bungo Baggins, Bilbo's
 	father, when he married Belladona Took.  The Sackville-Baggins took possession
 	when Bilbo left on his adventure, and bought the house from Frodo when he left
 	with the One Ring.  Lobelia Sackville-Baggins gave it back to Frodo after she
 	was released from the Lockholes, where she had been held captive by Saruman.
  
 3.	Moria-						 
 	Also called Khazad-dum.  This dwarven kingdom was built beneath the Cloudyhead,
 	Redhorn, and Silvertine mountains and founded by Durin in the First Age.  A 
 	Balrog was awoken from the depths of the kingdom and it slew King Durin VI in the
 	year 1980 of the Third Age, and his son King Nain I in 1981 of the Third Age.
 	King Thror tried to retake Moria in the year 2790 of the Third Age, and was
 	slain by the orc-leader Azog.  Thror's son Thrain mustered an army to retake
 	Moria, and Dain Ironfoot slew Azog in the year 2799 of the Third Age.  Balin
 	brought a company of dwarves, including Oin and Ori, to reclaim Moria in the
 	year 2989 of the Third Age.  Balin was slain on November 10, 2994 of the Third
 	Age.  The Fellowship of the Ring found Balin's tomb on January 15, 3019 of the
 	Third Age, and Gandalf fought the Balrog until January 25, 3019.  The battle
 	ended in both combatant's deaths.
 								 
  
 4.	Barad-dur-					 
 Also called the Dark Tower.  A tower maid of iron and stone, and veiled
 in shadow.  At the top of the tower was an iron crown, the Window of the Eye,
 from whence Sauron gazed across the entirety of Middle-earth.  Sauron began 
 construction of his fortress in the year 1000 of the Second Age, and finished 
 in the year 1600 of the Second Age.  At the conclusion of the Siege of 
 Barad-dur, Sauron came forth from his tower, and had the ring cut from his hand
 by Isildur.  Sauron's physical form and the tower simultaneously were destroyed
 in that moment, but the foundation of Barad-dur survived because the ring was
 not destroyed.  In the year 2951 of the Third Age, Sauron returned to and began
 to rebuild the Dark Tower.  Barad-dur was utterly destroyed with the One Ring's
 destruction on March 25, 3019 of the Third Age.
  
 5.	Minas Tirith-                
 Meaning Tower of the Guard, it was previously named Minas Arnor (Tower of 
 the Sun).  It was founded around 3320 of the Second Age, and became the 
 capital of the realm of Gondor in 1640 of the Third Age.  Since the year 2
 of the Third Age, there has been a seedling of the White Tree residing in the
 city.  In the year 2050 of the Third Age, the King of Gondor was slain, leaving
 no heir.  Stewards ruled Gondor until Lord Aragorn reclaimed his birthright
 as the heir of Elendil.  No enemy ever entered the city until March 15, 3019
 of the Third Age, when the Lord of the Nazgul entered through the Great Gate
 of Minas Tirith, which had been shattered by the enormous battering ram Grond.
 The Battle of Pelennor Fields was fought outside of the gates that same day, 
 and ended when Aragorn arrived with the army of the dead.  Aragorn finally
 claimed the throne of Gondor in Minas Tirith on May 1, 3019 of the Third Age.
  
 6.	Erebor-						 
 A dwarven kingdom under the Lonely Mountain.  It was founded in 1999 of the 
 Third Age by Thrain I, who escaped from Moria when the Balrog was awoken.
 Thrain I was also the one who discovered the Arkenstone.  Thrain I's son 
 Thorin I left in 2210 of the Third Age, and Thror, a descendant of Thrain I,
 returned to the Lonely Mountain in 2590 of the Third Age.  The kingdom of
 Erebor was captured by the Fire-drake Smaug in 2770 of the Third Age after
 hearing of the kingdom's great wealth.  In the year 2941 of the Third Age,
 King Thorin retook the kingdom of Erebor with help from Bilbo Baggins and
 12 other dwarves.  Smaug was slain by Bard the Bowman of Lake-town.  The
 Battle of Five Armies was fought outside the gates of Erebor, and King Thorin
 was killed, and the Arkenstone was buried with him.  Dain Ironfoot became the
 ruler of Erebor upon Thorin's death.  King Dain was killed on March 17, 3019
 of the Third Age when an army of Easterling who answered to Sauron attacked.
 The survivors took refuge in the mountain, and emerged on March 27, 3019 of
 the Third Age when news of Sauron's destruction arrived.  Dain's son 
 Thorin III Stonehelm succeeded his father as ruler of Erebor.
  
 7.	Isengard-					 
 The one mile diameter area surrounding Orthanc, a tower made of a black stone
 much like obsidian. It was built near the end of the Second Age as a place
 of learning and a fortification for the defence of Gondor.  It also held one
 of the palantiri.  When Rohan was founded in the 2510 of the Third Age from
 a portion of Gondor, Isengard became separated from the rest of the kingdom, 
 but remained in the possession of Gondor.  Dunlendings conquered Isengard in
 the year 2710 of the Third Age, and remained in their possession until they
 were starved out in the winter of 2758-2759 of the Third Age.  Saruman the
 White was allowed to reside in Isengard in 2759 of the Third Age, and seized 
 complete control of it in 2953 of the Third Age.  Saruman first sent a small
 portion of the orc host he had created to attack Rohan on February 25, 3019 of
 the Third Age, and unleashed the full force on March 2, 3019 of the Third Age.
 The force attacked the Rohirrim at Helm's Deep, and were utterly destroyed.
 As soon as the last orc had left, Treebeard and the other Ents of Fangorn
 destroyed the wall surrounding Isengard, and flooded the area with waters from
 the river Isen.  The Ents were asked to guard Orthanc on August 22, 3019 of
 the Third Age by King Aragorn.  The Ents planted groves of trees and gardens
 in Isengard, and formed a lake to surround Orthanc.
  
 8.	Rivendell-					 
 Also called Imladris, it was the valley ruled by Elrond.  It was a place of
 great beauty and preserved much knowledge through while Sauron attempted to
 conquer Middle-earth.  It was founded by Elrond in the year 1697 of the
 Second Age after Sauron destroyed Eregion.  In the year 3431 of the Second
 Age, the Last Alliance gathered in Rivendell to begin their assault of Mordor.
 Bilbo Baggins, a company of fourteen dwarves, and Gandalf arrived in
 Rivendell in 2941 of the Third Age on their way to Erebor.  Bilbo moved to
 Rivendell in 3002 of the Third Age, and Frodo arrived in September of 3018 
 of the Third Age.  The Council of Elrond was held on October 25, 3018 of the
 Third Age, and the Fellowship of the Ring was formed.  The Fellowship left
 Rivendell on December 25 of the same year.  Elrond left Rivendell with Bilbo
 in September 3021 of the Third Age to sail into the west.  Merry Brandybuck
 visited Rivendell sometimes during the Fourth Age to gather information for
 his book, The Tale of Years.  It is thought that Rivendell was deserted by
 the time death took King Aragorn in the year 120 of the Fourth Age.
  
 9.	The Black Gate-				 
 Also known as the Morannon,  it was a massive double-doored stone gate 
 infused with iron that guarded the entrance to Mordor.  It was built in the
 year 1000 of the Second Age when Sauron chose to reside in Mordor. In 3434 of
 the Second Age, the Battle of Dagorlad was fought outside the Black Gate, and
 ended in the Last Alliance entering Mordor through the gate.  The Black Gate
 was held by Gondor until at least 1944 of the Third Age, and was defiantly 
 left deserted by 1980 of the Third Age, when the Witch-king of Angmar 
 entered Mordor.  Sauron retook control of the Black Gate upon his return to 
 Mordor in the year 2942 of the Third Age.  On March 5, 3019  of the Third Age,
 Frodo Baggins, Samwise Gamgee, and Gollum/Smeagol arrived at the Black Gate 
 and found it impassable.  On March 25 of the same year, the Host of the West
 arrived at the Black Gate and the Battle of the Morannon was fought.  The
 Black Gate was cast down and destroyed when Sauron was destroyed.
 								 
 10. Cirith Ungol (Shelob's Lair)-				 
 The lair of the great spider Shelob was at the top of the Stairs of Cirith
 Ungol opposite Minas Morgul.  The stairs had a shear drop down into the 
 Morgul Vale. A foul stench emanated from the pitch black tunnel.    
 Gollum/Smeagol found Shelob's lair around 2980 of the Third Age, and led
 Frodo Baggins and Samwise Gamgee there on March 12, 3019 of the Third Age.
 Sam severely wounded Shelob that same day, and she retreated into her
 den, possibly to her death.
  
 11. Helm’s Deep-				 
 A fortress of Rohan that was never captured while it was defended, it
 is has a twenty foot tall wall surrounding it called the Deeping Wall.
 When the large horn called the great horn of Helm Hammerhand was sounded 
 from the tower, it reverberated off of the natural rocky wall surrounding.
 It was built by the men of Gondor  sometime between 830 and 1149 of the
 Third Age, and given to Rohan in 2510 of the Third Age.  Between November
 2758 and March 2759, Dunlandings besieged the people of Rohan in Helm's 
 Deep, starvation was rampant, and Helm Hammerhand froze upon the dike before
 Helm's nephew Frealaf drove the invaders away.  King Theoden arrived at Helm's
 Deep on March 3, 3019 of the Third Age, and Saruman's forces attacked on
 March 4, 3019 of the Third Age. The Rohirrim survived the night, and the 
 Deeping Wall was destroyed.  Gandalf arrived with Erkenbrand and an army of
 Huorns to destroy the remnant of Sauman's forces at the daybreak of 
 March 5, 3019 of the Third Age.
  
 12. Esgaroth-					 
 Commonly known as Lake-town, this village of men was built out of wood above
 the surface of Long Lake on long wooden piles.  A once prosperous town, it
 had fallen into disrepair by the time Smaug conquered the Lonely Mountain
 in the year 2770 of the Third Age. The company of Thorin Oakenshield 
 arrived in Lake-town on September 22, 2941 of the Third Age.  A few days
 later, Smaug the dragon descended on Esgaroth from the Lonely Mountain due
 to the arrival of the dwarves and Bilbo Baggins arriving at the 
 Lonely Mountain.  Bard slew the Smaug with a Black Arrow, Esgaroth was 
 destroyed by Smaug.  Lake-town was rebuilt on the bones of the dragon 
 after the Battle of Five Armies late in the year 2941 of the Third Age.
  
 13.Dol Guldur-					 
 Originally called Amon Lanc, it was the residence of the King of the
 Woodland Realm, before it was left abandoned as the elves moved North.
 In the year 1050 of the Third Age Sauron took up residence in a great tower
 he built on the ruins of the previous dwellings of the elves.  Massive
 spiders began to live near the tower, and a shadow descended upon Greenwood
 the Great due to Sauron's presence.  In 2063 of the Third Age, Gandalf 
 investigated the presence in Dol Guldur claiming to be the Necromancer, 
 and found it to be Sauron.  Sauron fled until his return to Dol Guldur in
 the year 2460 of the Third Age.  Thrain II, father of Thorin Oakenshield, 
 was captured, had the last of the Seven Rings of the Dwarves taken from
 him, and was thrown in the dungeons of Dol Guldur.  Gandalf found him near
 death in the year 2850 of the Third Age, and received the key and map of
 Erebor from Thrain II.  The White Council finally agreed to drive Sauron
 forth from Dol Guldur in the year 2941 of the Third Age due to Saruman's
 delay in his pursuit of the One Ring.  Sauron then returned to Mordor.  
 Three Nazgul and a company of orcs were stationed at Dol Guldur by Sauron
 in the year 2951 of the Third Age.  Three assaults were lead against 
 Lothlorien from Dol Guldur during the War of the Ring.  After Sauron's 
 destruction Celeborn lead an attack against Dol Guldur on March 28, 3019
 of the Third Age.  Galadriel destroyed the tower and the shadow was 
 lifted from Mirkwood.
 
 14. Fangorn Forest-			 
 The forest home of the Ents.  It is a place of dense growth with many 
 								 Huorns in it.  It has a valley near the in the southwestern portion of 
 								 the forest called Derndingle where the Ents held their Entmoots.  Fangorn 
 								 forest also held Wellinghall, where Treebeard, the eldest of the Ents mainly 
 								 dwelt.  The forest, along with the Old Forest, were the only remnants of 
 								 the the enormous forest of old that once covered much of Middle-earth.  
 								 Fangorn also separated from the forest of Lorien at the decision of
 								 Treebeard and the King of Lothlorien.
 
 15. Lothlorien-				 
 The only forest of mallorn trees in Middle-earth.  It was originally founded
 								 by elves who began to follow the call of Orome to the Undying Lands, but did
 								 not cross the Misty Mountains. Amdir became their leader in the early part 
 								 of the Second Age.  He and a group of elves of Lothlorien went to aid in the
 								 War of the Last Alliance in 3431 of the Second Age, but Amdir and half his
 								 force were driven into the Dead Marshes, never to return.  Amdir's son 
 								 Amroth ruled Lothlorien until the year 1980 of the Second Age when the elf
 								 maiden Nimrodel, whom Amroth loved, became frightened by the awakening of
 								 the Balrog of Moria.  Nimrodel agreed to marry Amroth if he could take her
 								 to a land free of strife.  Amroth and Nimrodel set out for the Undying Lands,
 								 but became separated in the White Mountains.  Nimrodel fell asleep near the 
 								 river Gilrain, which reminded her of her home.  Amroth came to the port of
 								 Edhellond and convinced the ship to wait.  But he was washed out to sea in a
 								 storm.  He attempted to swim back to his beloved, but was drowned.  The fate
 								 of Nimrodel is unknown.  After the demise of Amroth, Celeborn and 
 								 Galadriel became the leaders of Lothlorien, as they had previously visited
 								 during times of crisis.  The Fellowship of the Ring arrived in Lothlorien
 								 without Gandalf on January 15, 3019 of the Third Age, and left in boats
 								 provided by Celeborn on February 16 of the same year.  Gandalf arrived on 
 								 February 17, 3019 of the Third Age riding on the eagle Gwaihir the 
 								 Windlord.  Gandalf received white robes from Galadriel.  Lothlorien
 								 was attacked three times by forces originating from Dol Guldur in March of
 								 3019 of the Third Age.  On April 6, 3019 of the Third Age Celeborn met 
 								 with Thranduil, the king of the Woodland Realm, and divided Mirkwood,
 								 renamed the Wood of Greenleaves, into thirds, with the lowest third
 								 becoming a part of Lothlorien.  Galadriel left for the Undying Lands
 								 on September 29, 3021 of the Third Age, and Celeborn left for Rivendell, and
 								 then on to the Undying Lands a short time later.  In the year 120 of the
 								 Fourth Age, Arwen came to Lothlorien after her husband Aragorn's death.
 								 She returned to the heart of Lothlorien the next year to die.
 								 
 16. Minas Morgul-				 
 Originally named Minas Ithil (Tower of the Moon), it was founded in 3320 of the 
 								 Second Age by Gondorians, and a sapling of the White Tree was planted in
 								 it by Isildur.  Minas Ithil was seized by Sauron in 3429 of the Second
 								 Age.  After the end of the War of the Last Alliance in the year 3441 of the 
 								 Second Age, Gondor began to again keep watch on Mordor from Minas Ithil.
 								 The Nazgul laid siege to the tower in the year 2000 of the Third Age before
 								 capturing it in the year 2002 of the Third Age.  It then became the abode 
 								 of the Witch-king of Angmar, and was renamed Minas Morgul.  It remained in 
 								 Sauron's possession until his destruction on March 25, 3019 of the Third Age.
 								 Lord Aragorn decreed Minas Morgul would be annihilated at his coronation on
 								 May 1, 3019 of the Third Age.
 
 17. Meduseld-					 
 A large hall in Edoras, the main town of Rohan.  It is a large, thatched 
 								 roof, single-roomed hall ornately decorated with golden, jewel studded carvings
 								 of animals.  A large hearth was in the center of the room with an gilded 
 								 throne on a dais.  Rich tapestries hung on either side of the room.  It was
 								 built in 2569 of the Third Age by Brego.  At the dedication feast, Brego's
 								 son vowed to traverse the Paths of the Dead, from which he never returned,
 								 and his father Brego died of grief.  In 2758 of the Third Age, Dunlandings
 								 seized Meduseld, and it was reclaimed by Frealaf in the year 2759 of the 
 								 Third Age.  Gandalf, Aragorn, Legolas, and Gimli arrived at Meduseld on
 								 March 2, 3019 of the Third Age and freed King Theoden from Saruman and
 								 Grima Wormtoungue's control.
 
 18. Dale-						 
 A city of men built at the foot of the Lonely Mountain.  It may have been
 								 built as early as 1856 or as late as as 2590, both of the Third Age.  The
 								 town became famous for its magical toys as Erebor prospered.  The 
 								 fire-drake Smaug descended on Erebor in 2770 of the Third Age, and burned
 								 the town of Dale.  Of those who survived, some tried to remain in Dale,
 								 but Smaug emerged at night to hunt them, and in particular, the maidens,
 								 for food.  Bard rebuilt Dale in 2944 of the Third Age after his slaying
 								 of Smaug.  On March 17, 3019 of the Third Age, Brand, the current ruler
 								 of Dale, was killed by an invading army of Easterlings under Sauron's
 								 command.  The remaining inhabitants of Dale took refuge in the Lonely
 								 Mountain until March 27, 3019 of the Third Age, when news of Sauron's 
 								 defeat reached them, and they routed the Easterlings alongside the dwarves
 								 of Erebor.
 
 19. Osgiliath-					 
 Osgiliath was the original capital of Gondor.  Both Osgiliath and Gondor were
 								 founded in the year 3320 of the Second Age.  Osgiliath was captured by rebels
 								 in 1437 of the Third Age and King Eldacar was deposed until 1447 of the 
 								 Third Age, when King Eldacar defeated the leader of the rebels at Pelargir.
 								 In 1640 of the Third Age, King Telemnar moved the capital of Gondor from
 								 Osgiliath to Minas Arnor, which would become Minas Tirith.  In 2475 of the 
 								 Third Age, orcs from Mordor captured Osgiliath and left it in ruins when
 								 they were repelled by Boromir, son of Denethor I (not the Boromir of the
 								 Fellowship of the Ring).  The city was then left empty as the Gondorians 
 								 withdrew.  Denethor II became Steward in the year 2984 of the Third Age, 
 								 and posted a garrison at Osgiliath to end the continual back and forth 
 								 possession of the city between Gondor and Mordor.  On June 20, 3018, 
 								 the eastern portion of Osgiliath was captured by the Lord of the Nazgul.
 								 On March 12, 3019 of the Third Age, the orc host overtook the remainder
 								 of the city.  The army at Osgiliath was defeated in the Battle of 
 								 Pelennor Fields on March 15, 3019 of the Third Age.  After King 
 								 Aragorn's coronation on May 1, 3019 of the Third Age, it is likely that
 								 Osgiliath was rebuilt.
 
 20. Trollshaws-				 
 A rocky and hilly fifty mile stretch of land filled with pine and beech trees.
 								 It was part of the kingdom of Rhudaur, which was founded in 861 of the Third
 								 Age, and fell under the Witch-king of Angmar's control in the year 1409 of 
 								 the Third Age.  In May of 2941 of the Third Age, Bilbo Baggins and the
 								 dwarven company of Thorin Oakenshield came upon three uncommonly intelligent
 								 trolls in the Trollshaws, who were outwitted by Gandalf until daybreak turned
 								 them to stone.  On October 18, 3018 of the Third Age, Frodo Baggins, who had
 								 been wounded by a Morgul blade, Samwise Gamgee, Meriadoc Brandybuck, Peregrin
 								 Took, and King Aragorn came upon those statue remains of those same three
 								 trolls on their way to Rivendell.
 
 21. High Pass-					 
 A raised mountain pass through the Misty Mountains from Rivendell to Mirkwood.
 								 The goblins who lived in the Misty Mountains used to have the entrance to 
 								 their lair in a different pass, but travelers began to stop using the other
 								 pass due to the danger.  The goblins made a new entrance in the High Pass
 								 sometime around the year 2941 of the Third Age.  The goblins captured the 
 								 company of Thorin Oakenshield through this new entrance in the year 2941 
 								 of the Third Age.  By the year 3018 of the Third Age, the High Pass was
 								 guarded by Beornings, who charged a toll to keep the pass free of dangers.
 
 22. Bree-						 
 Supposedly the birthplace of the art of pipe-weed smoking, it is a 
 								 settlement where men and hobbits dwelt peacefully together.  It was also 
 								 the location of the Prancing Pony, a famous inn.  Bree may have been
 								 founded as early as around the year 600 of the Second Age by the original
 								 men of Eriador.  Bree was incorporated into the north kingdom of Arnor in
 								 the year 3320 of the Second Age.  The first Hobbits appeared in Bree around
 								 the year 1300 of the Third Age, and a company of them lead by Marcho and 
 								 Blanco left from Bree in the year 1601 of the Third Age to found the Shire.
 								 On March 15, 2941 of the Third Age, it was the site of the meeting between
 								 Gandalf and Thorin Oakenshield, where they created a plan to retake the 
 								 Lonely Mountain from the fire-drake Smaug.  In the Prancing Pony on 
 								 September 29, 3018 of the Third Age, Frodo Baggins, Samwise Gamgee, 
 								 Meriadoc Brandybuck, and Peregrin Took met the Ranger Strider who was 
 								 King Aragorn.  Men from the south slowly began to move into Bree that same
 								 year, but they were ruffians, and began a fight early in 3019 of the Third
 								 Age in which three men and two hobbits of Bree were killed.  After that,
 								 the ruffians were removed from Bree.
 
 23. Weathertop-				 
 Once a tower named Amon Sul, it was built around the year 3320 of the 
 								 Third Age when the northern kingdom of Arnor was founded.  In the year
 								 1409 of the Third Age, the tower was surrounded by the forces of Angmar,
 								 and was destroyed and burned.  Frodo Baggins, Samwise Gamgee, Meriadoc 
 								 Brandybuck, Peregrin Took, and Kind Aragorn arrived at Weathertop while
 								 being pursued by the Nazgul on October 6, 3018 of the Third Age.  That
 								 was when Frodo received his wound from the Morgul Blade. 
 
 24. The Woodland Realm-		 
 It was founded near the beginning of the Second Age by either Thranduil
 								 or his father Oropher, and was a realm of elves who did not cross the 
 								 Misty Mountains on the trek to the Undying Lands.  Originally, Amon Lanc
 								 which became Dol Guldur was the capital of the Woodland Realm.  Oropher
 								 and a two-thirds of the elves of his realm died in the assault on the gates
 								 of Mordor during the War of the Last Alliance in the year 3434 of the 
 								 Third Age.  Thranduil moved away from the tower of Amon Lanc after Sauron
 								 took up residence there in the year 1050 of the Third Age.  During the
 								 autumn of the year 2941, the dwarves in the company of Thorin Oakenshield
 								 were captured by the elves of the Woodland Realm, and Bilbo Baggins
 								 released them from their prison by concealing the dwarves in the empty
 								 barrels being sent back to Lake-town.  Thranduil sent his son Legolas
 								 to Rivendell to report that Gollum/Smeagol had escaped from the elves
 								 in August of the year 3017 of the Third Age, and Legolas joined the 
 								 Fellowship of the Ring while in Rivendell.  In March of the year 3019 of
 								 the Third Age, the forces of Sauron began to destroy and burn Mirkwood,
 								 but the army of Thranduil defeated them.  On April 6, 3019, after the fall
 								 of Sauron, King Thranduil and Celeborn of Lothlorien met to rename 
 								 Mirkwood the Wood of Greenleaves and divide it into thirds, with the top
 								 third being given to the Woodland Realm.
 
 25. The Argonath-				 
 They are massive statues on either side of the river Anduin.  They were
 								 carved from grey stone, one in the likeness of Isildur, one in the
 								 likeness of Anarion. They were built by Romendacil II, the nineteenth
 								 king of Gondor, around the year 1248 of the Third Age to indicate the 
 								 northern boundary of Gondor.  Permission was required to proceed past
 								 them southward when they were created, but this policy was not upheld
 								 as the strength of Gondor diminished.
 
 26. Amon Hen-					 
 Also called the Hill of Seeing due to the Seat of Seeing being located 
 								 on the hill.  The Seat of Seeing was built by the men of Gondor near the
 								 end of the Second Age.  The hill is heavily wooded, and stands among
 								 Emyn Muil.  The Fellowship of the Ring arrived there on February 25, 3019
 								 of the Third Age.  Frodo Baggins and Samwise Gamgee separated from the rest
 								 of the Fellowship to protect the others from Sauron.  Boromir, son of 
 								 Denethor II was slain there by a host of Uruk-hai from Isengard, and his 
 								 body was sent down the Falls of Rauros and out to the sea.
 
 27. The Dead Marshes-			 
 A large area of wetlands where the faces of the dead could still be seen
 								 beneath the surface of the water and lights,said to be the candles of the
 								 dead, seemed to float throughout the marsh.  A horrendous stench wafted
 								 throughout the area.  It was the site of the Battle of Dagorlad in the 
 								 War of the Last Alliance in the year 3434 of the Second Age, and the 
 								 slain of that battle became the dead floating just below the surface.
 								 Gollum/Smeagol discovered the safe path through the marshes and led
 								 Frodo Baggins and Samwise Gamgee through safely on March 1 and March 2, 
 								 3019 of the Third Age on their way to the Black Gate.
 
 28. The Paths of the Dead-  	 
 The entrance is in Dwimorberg in the Harrowdale valley, and a single 
 								 stone marks the entrance.  At the exit stood the Stone of Erech, which
 								 stands as tall as a man, and was brought from Numenor by Isildur.
 								 Isildur received an oath of allegiance from the King of the Men of the
 								 Mountains on the Stone of Erech when Gondor was founded.  When they were
 								 summoned by Isildur to fight Sauron at the close of the Second Age, they 
 								 refused the call, and were cursed by Isildur to never find rest until 
 								 they fulfilled their vow.  Aragorn traversed the path on March 8, 3019
 								 of the Third Age with Halbarad, Gimli, Legolas, and thirty northern 
 								 Rangers.  The Dead agreed to Aragorn's terms that if they helped fight
 								 now, they would be released to death on midnight of that same day. On
 								 March 13, 3019 of the Third Age, the Dead captured the Corsair fleet,
 								 and Aragorn released them.
 								 
 
 29. The Pass of Caradhras-		
 A high and snowy mountain pass, it was also called the Redhorn Gate, 
 								and worked its way through the mountains to the Dimrill Stair, which lead 
 								down out of the mountains to the Dimrill Dale.  It is the southernmost 
 								passage across the mountains before the Gap of Rohan.  It was widely used
 								during the Second Age before the destruction of Eregion in the year 1697.
 								Elrond's wife Celebrian was wounded by orcs in the pass in the year 2509
 								of the Second Age.  She was not happy in Middle-earth after her torment,
 								and left for the Undying Lands the following year.  On January 11 and 12,
 								3019 of the Third Age, the Fellowship of the Ring attempted to cross
 								the Redhorn Gate, but a blizzard and falling rocks forced them to turn 
 								back.  When they left the pass, it was completely blocked by an avalanche.
 
 30. Gundabad-					
 A mountain which stood apart from the others, and is part of the Misty
 								Mountains.  The dwaraves revered Gundabad as the place where Durin, the
 								eldest of the original Seven Fathers of the Dwarves, awoke.  During the 
 								middle of the Second Age, orcs claimed Gundabad as their capital of their
 								realm.  The dwarves retook Gundabad in the War of the Dwarves and Orcs from
 								2793 to 2799 of the Third Age, before a host of orcs and wargs captured it 
 								again in the year 2941 of the Third Age.  Gundabad was emptied in that same
 								year, and the hosts of orcs and wargs was defeated in the Battle of Five 
 								Armies at Dale and at the foot of the Lonely Mountain.
 
 31. The Grey Havens-			
 Alternatively named Mithlond, it was a port where ships sailed west into
 								the Undying Lands.  The Havens were founded in year 1 of the Second Age,
 								and Cirdain was made Lord of the Havens.  Ships from Numenor discovered
 								the Grey Havens in the year 600 of the Second Age, and returned many
 								times after.  In the year 3320 of the Second Age, when Numenor was
 								destroyed, Elendil sailed to the Grey Havens and founded the northern
 								kingdom of Arnor.  The wizards arrived at the Grey Havens in the year
 								1000 of the Third Age.  On September 29, 3021 of the Third Age, Gandalf,
 								Frodo and Bilbo Baggins, Elrond, Galadriel, and many other elves arrived
 								at the Grey Havens to sail to the Undying Lands.  Sam Gamgee came to the 
 								Grey Havens in the year 61 of the Fourth Age to follow his master to the
 								Undying Lands.
 
 32. The Green Dragon Inn-		
 A gathering place for hobbits from all around.  On April 27, 2941 of the
 								Third Age, the company of Thorin Oakenshield left from the Green Dragon Inn.
 								Samwise Gamgee, Frodo Baggins, Peregrin Took, and Meriadoc Brandybuck 
 								returned from their adventures on November 2, 3019 of the Third Age to
 								find the Green Dragon Inn boarded up with men inside.  The men were routed
 								by the hobbits the next day.
 
 33. Tom Bombadil’s House-		
 A house of nature and peace located in the Old Forest.  Tom Bombadil resided
 								there with his wife Goldberry, who is the River-woman's daughter.  On 
 								September 26, 3018 of the Third Age, Frodo Baggins, Samwise Gamgee, 
 								Peregrin Took, and Meriadoc Brandybuck came to Tom Bombadil's house, and 
 								stayed for two days.  Tom Bombadil tried on the One Ring, and did not 
 								become invisible.  He was not drawn by the ring, and could see Frodo when
 								Frodo was invisible.
 
 34. Barrow-downs-				
 A country full of hills and mounds and covered in short grass.  Tall stones
 								jut from the ground here and there.  The first mound was said to have been
 								created by the first men in the First Age before they moved on to 
 								Beleriand.  In the Third Age, the Dunedain held the Barrow-downs in high
 								esteem because their ancestor were buried there.  The Dunedain then buried
 								their leaders and kings there, and died there when the forces of Angmar
 								swept through in the year 1409 of the Third Age.  The Witch-king of Angmar
 								sent evil spirits to inhabit the barrows in the year 1636 of the Third Age,
 								thereby creating the Barrow-wights.  The Witch-king came to rouse the 
 								Barrow-wights from September 23 to 27 of the year 3018 of the Third Age.
 								Frodo Baggins, Samwise Gamgee, Peregrin Took, and Meriadoc Brandybuck came 
 								to the Barrow-downs on September 28, 3018 of the Third Age.  They became 
 								confused in the fog, and were captured by a Barrow-wight.  Frodo called
 								Tom Bombadil, and he dispelled the Barrow-wight, and spread its treasure
 								on the grass to prevent any Barrow-wight from returning to the spot.
 
 35. Rhosgobel-					
 The house of Radagast the Brown, it was also known as Brownhay.  It was
 								located on the eastern edge of Mirkwood.
 
 36. The Falls of Rauros-		
 A large waterfall that is at the southern part of Nen Hithoel that led
 								to a continuation of the river Anduin.  Boromir's body was sent over
 								the falls in a boat from Lothlorien after his death on February 26, 3019
 								of the Third Age.
 
 37. The Midgewater Marshes-    
 A marsh near Bree filled with birds and many bugs.  King Aragorn led 
 								Frodo Baggins, Samwise Gamgee, Peregrin Took, and Meriadoc Brandybuck 
 								through the marshes for two days beginning on October 2, 3018 of the 
 								Third Age.
 
 38. The Iron Hills-			
 A mountain range in the far east, it is a leading source of ore for all 
 								of Middle-earth.  The Iron Hills were settled in the year 2590 of the 
 								Third Age by the dwarf-lord Gror and his followers from the Grey 
 								Mountains.  Gror's brother Thror led another company of dwarves to the
 								Lonely Mountain.  Gror's son Nain led an army of dwarves to aid their
 								brethren in retaking Moria in the year 2799 of the Third Age, and Nain was
 								killed by the orc-leader Azog.  Nain's son Dain Ironfoot avenged his 
 								father by slaying Azog.  Dain Ironfoot then ruled the Iron Mountains until
 								he received a request for aid from Thorin Oakenshield in the year 2941 of 
 								the Third Age.  He led a company of dwarves to attack the elves of the 
 								Mirkwood and the men of Lake-town, but ended up fighting with them 
 								against the hosts of orcs and wargs in the Battle of the Five Armies.
 								After Thorin's death in the battle, Dain Ironfoot became the ruler of
 								Erebor.
 
 39. The Fords of Isen-			
 A stretch of the river Isen that could be crossed by large armies at once.
 								The men of Dunland invaded Rohan through the Fords of Isen in the year
 								2758 of the Third Age, and Saruman attacked the forces of Rohan through
 								the Fords of Isen on February 25 and March 2 of the year 3019 of the 
 								Third Age.  On the second attack, the forces of Saruman overran the men
 								of Rohan, and continued on to Helm's Deep.
 
 40. The Blue Mountains-		
 The mountain range was once near the border of Beleriand, and had seven
 								rivers flowing westward from it before the Second Age.  Elves first 
 								crossed the mountains on their way to the Undying Lands in the year 1125 
 								of the Years of the Trees.  The Nandor followed in the year 1350 of the
 								Years of the Trees and settled in Lindon.  The fathers of the dwarf clans
 								of Firebeard and Broadbeams were said to have awakened beneath the Blue
 								Mountains.  Two dwarven named Nogrod and Belegost were founded in the Blue
 								Mountains as well.  Men crossed the Blue Mountains to live in Beleriand
 								in the year 310 of the First Age.  In the year 502 of the First Age, the 
 								dwarves of Nogrod were asked to set a Silmaril in the necklace Nauglamir.
 								From 545 to 587 of the First Age, Morgoth was defeated in the War of Wrath,
 								and most of Beleriand was sunk beneath the ocean, and the Gulf of Lune was
 								formed, separating the Blue Mountains.  The dwarves of Nogrod and Belegost
 								left when the mountain range was split, and most went to Khazad-dum.  In
 								the year 2802 of the Third Age, Thorin Oakenshield and his father Thrain
 								moved to the Blue Mountains after they tried to retake Moria and Thror was
 								slain by Azog.  After the quest to reclaim Erebor was successful, many
 								dwarves moved to the Lonely Mountain, but some remained in the Blue
 								Mountains.  As Sauron gained strength again in the Third Age, many 
 								dwarves sought refuge in the Blue Mountains, and stayed into the Fourth
 								Age after Sauron was vanquished on March 25, 3019 of the Third Age.
 
 41. The Brandywine Bridge-		
 Also named the Bridge of Stonebrows, it crosses the Brandywine River.
 								It was built around the year 3320 of the Second Age near the time of the
 								foundation of the northern kingdom of Angmar.  A spiked wall was put up at
 								either end of the bridge by Saruman during the years 3018 and 3019 of the 
 								Third Age.  After the hobbits evicted Saruman's men from the Shire on 
 								November 3, 3019 of the Third Age, the spiked walls were removed from the
 								bridge.  Aragorn met with Samwise Gamgee, Meriadoc Brandybuck, and 
 								Peregrin Took from time to time at the bridge since he had declared as
 								king that no men were allowed to visit or traverse the Shire. 								
 
 42. The Field of Celebrant-	
 Originally part of Gondor's northern region, it was the where the 
 								Rohirrim first came to Gondor's aid.  The Steward of Gondor at the time was
 								Cirion, and he led a force against the invading men of Rhun, called the
 								Balchoth.  On April 15, 2510 of the Third Age, Eorl the Young led the
 								Eotheod against the invaders to save the Gondorians from imminent 
 								destruction.  Cirion gave the lands of Rohan to Eorl the Young as a 
 								reward for his aid, and Gondor no longer maintained guards in the area
 								that is now Rohan.
 
 43. Harad-						
 A large land full of tribal nations which commonly served Sauron.  The 
 								Numenoreans began sailing to Harad in the Second Age, and initially
 								helped the people native to the land.  They slowly began demand tribute
 								and built the Havens of Umbar in the year 2280 of the Second Age.  Sauron,
 								in the mean time since the year 1000 of the Second Age, had been swaying the
 								men of Harad to himself.  When Ar-Pharazon, the king of Numenor, landed in
 								the year 3261 of the Second Age, Sauron was captured by choice, and
 								taken to Numenor where he corrupted the men there.  The Numenoreans began
 								to use the men of Harad as human sacrifices, which the Haradrim still recall.
 								Even after Sauron was originally defeated in the year 3441 of the Second Age,
 								the Haradrim still attacked the Gondorians.  King Earnil I of Gondor
 								captured the Havens of Umbar in the year 933 of the Third Age.  Ciryaher, the
 								grandson of Earnil I was given possession of the Havens of Umbar, and forced
 								the princes of Harad to live as prisoners in Gondor.  The rebels who
 								took the throne of Gondor in the year 1448 of the Third Age escaped to the
 								Haven of Umbar, and formed the Corsairs, using the Havens of Umbar as a 
 								stronghold against Gondor.  King Telumehtar Umbardacil of Gondor briefly
 								conquered the Havens of Umbar in the year 1810 of the Third Age, but quickly
 								lost it to the Haradrim.  The Wainriders appeared from the east in the year
 								1851 of the Third Age, and initially fought with the Haradrim as well as
 								Gondorians, but quickly formed an alliance with the Haradrim.  Both forces
 								led a unified attack against Gondor in the year 1944 of the Third Age, but
 								were defeated.  The Haradrim attacked Ithilien in the year 2885 of the Third
 								Age, but were defeated by the Gondorians.  By the year 2951 of the Third Age,
 								Sauron had returned to Mordor, and was amassing his armies again, including 
 								the Haradrim.  The Haradrim brought Mumakil to use as Sauron saw fit during
 								the War of the Ring.  When Aragorn became king of Gondor, peace was made
 								between the Gondorians and the Haradrim.  But some remained twisted by 
 								Sauron, and Aragorn and King Eomer of Rohan traveled south to 
 								subdue the small amount of rabble-rousers and return peace between Gondor
 								and Harad.
 								
 44. Fornost-					
 The end of the great North-South Road that runs through all of Gondor, it
 								was a strong fortress, much like Amon Sul once was.  The palantir of Amon Sul
 								was brought ot Fornost, along with the Stone of Anniminas for protection.
 								The Witch-king of Angmar attacked Fornost in the year 1409 of the Third Age, 
 								but was driven back by King Araphor of Gondor and Cirdain the Shipwright of 
 								the Grey Havens.  The Witch-king conquered Fornost in the year 1974 of the 
 								Third Age, but was forced to retreat to the north the next year by a host
 								of men and elves.  The fortress was left deserted after it was reclaimed from
 								the Witch-king, and was commonly referred to as Deadman's Dike.  When King
 								Aragorn claimed the throne of Gondor on May 1, 3019 of the Third Age, he
 								had Fornost rebuilt and it became inhabited once again.
 
 45. Pelargir-					
 A port city of Gondor on the river Anduin, it was built in the year 2350 of
 								the Second Age.  The faithful of Numenor lived in Pelargir for a while, and
 								Andunaic, the language of Numenor, became intermixed with the languages
 								of other men, and formed the Common Speech in Pelargir.  The Common Speech
 								then spread throughout the rest of Middle-earth.  Many people of Pelargir
 								supported the usurpers in the rebellion of the year 1437 of the Third Age.
 								After the leader of the rebellion, Castamir, was slain by King Eldacar of 
 								Gondor in the year 1447 of the Third Age, Castamir's sons relocated
 								themselves and their followers to the Havens of Umbar in Harad.  King 
 								Minardil of Gondor was slain by Corsairs in Pelargir in the year 1634 of
 								the Third Age.  Aragorn lead a force from Pelargir against the Corsairs 
 								in the year 2980 of the Third Age, and destroyed their fleet for a while.
 								The Corsairs captured Pelargir during the War of the Ring between the years
 								3018 and 3019 of the Third Age, and were going to sail up the Anduin river
 								to attack Gondor.  Aragorn brought the Dead Men of Dunharrow to Pelargir
 								on March 13, 3019 of the Third Age.  Aragorn released the Dead to peace
 								in Pelargir, and took the ships to the aid of Gondor on March 15, 3019
 								of the Third Age.